src/content/api/contextmodulefactory-hooks.md, before:

---
title: ContextModuleFactory Hooks
group: Plugins
sort: 11
contributors:
  - iguessitsokay
---

The `ContextModuleFactory` module is used by the `Compiler` to generate dependencies from webpack specific [require.context](/api/module-methods/#requirecontext) API. It resolves the requested directory, generates requests for each file and filters against passed regExp. Matching dependencies then passes through [NormalModuleFactory](/api/normalmodulefactory-hooks).

The `ContextModuleFactory` class extends `Tapable` and provides the following
lifecycle hooks. They can be tapped the same way as compiler hooks:

``` js
ContextModuleFactory.hooks.someHook.tap(/* ... */);
```

As with the `compiler`, `tapAsync` and `tapPromise` may also be available
depending on the type of hook.


### `beforeResolve`

`AsyncSeriesWaterfallHook`

Fired before resolving the requested directory. The request can be ignored by returning `false`.

- Callback Parameters: `data`


### `afterResolve`

`AsyncSeriesWaterfallHook`

Fired after resolving the requested directory.

- Callback Parameters: `data`


### `contextModuleFiles`

`SyncWaterfallHook`

Fired after directory contents are read. On recursive mode, fires for each sub-directory as well. Callback parameter is an array of all file and folder names in each directory.

- Callback Parameters: `fileNames`


### `alternativeRequests`

`AsyncSeriesWaterfallHook`

Fired for each file after the request is created but before filtering against regExp.

- Callback Parameters: `request` `options`

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
- Remove inline code styling from headers
- Replace the term "Fired" with "Called"
- Replace single-line lists with multiline numbered lists

Thanks @chenxsan for the review

Co-authored-by: Sam Chen <chenxsan@gmail.com>

src/content/api/contextmodulefactory-hooks.md, after:

---
title: ContextModuleFactory Hooks
group: Plugins
sort: 11
contributors:
  - iguessitsokay
---

The `ContextModuleFactory` module is used by the `Compiler` to generate dependencies from webpack specific [require.context](/api/module-methods/#requirecontext) API. It resolves the requested directory, generates requests for each file and filters against passed regExp. Matching dependencies then passes through [NormalModuleFactory](/api/normalmodulefactory-hooks).

The `ContextModuleFactory` class extends `Tapable` and provides the following
lifecycle hooks. They can be tapped the same way as compiler hooks:

``` js
ContextModuleFactory.hooks.someHook.tap(/* ... */);
```

As with the `compiler`, `tapAsync` and `tapPromise` may also be available
depending on the type of hook.


### beforeResolve

`AsyncSeriesWaterfallHook`

Called before resolving the requested directory. The request can be ignored by returning `false`.

- Callback Parameters: `data`


### afterResolve

`AsyncSeriesWaterfallHook`

Called after the requested directory resolved.

- Callback Parameters: `data`


### contextModuleFiles

`SyncWaterfallHook`

Called after directory contents are read. On recursive mode, calls for each sub-directory as well. Callback parameter is an array of all file and folder names in each directory.

- Callback Parameters: `fileNames`


### alternativeRequests

`AsyncSeriesWaterfallHook`

Called for each file after the request is created but before filtering against regExp.

- Callback Parameters: `request` `options`
