src/content/api/hot-module-replacement.mdx, before:

---
title: Hot Module Replacement
sort: 4
contributors:
  - sokra
  - skipjack
  - tbroadley
  - byzyk
  - wizardofhogwarts
  - snitin315
related:
  - title: Concepts - Hot Module Replacement
    url: /concepts/hot-module-replacement
  - title: Guides - Hot Module Replacement
    url: /guides/hot-module-replacement
---

If [Hot Module Replacement](/concepts/hot-module-replacement) has been enabled via the [`HotModuleReplacementPlugin`](/plugins/hot-module-replacement-plugin), its interface will be exposed under the [`module.hot`](/api/module-variables/#modulehot-webpack-specific) property as well as [`import.meta.webpackHot`](/api/module-variables/#importmetawebpackhot) property. Note that only `import.meta.webpackHot` can be used in [strict ESM](/guides/ecma-script-modules/#flagging-modules-as-esm).

Typically, users will check to see if the interface is accessible, then begin working with it. As an example, here's how you might `accept` an updated module:

```js
if (module.hot) {
  module.hot.accept('./library.js', function () {
    // Do something with the updated library module...
  });
}

// or
if (import.meta.webpackHot) {
  import.meta.webpackHot.accept('./library.js', function () {
    // Do something with the updated library modue…
  });
}
```

The following methods are supported...

## Module API

### `accept`

Accept updates for the given `dependencies` and fire a `callback` to react to those updates, in addition, you can attach an optional error handler:

```js
module.hot.accept(
  dependencies, // Either a string or an array of strings
  callback, // Function to fire when the dependencies are updated
  errorHandler // (err, {moduleId, dependencyId}) => {}
);

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.accept(
  dependencies, // Either a string or an array of strings
  callback, // Function to fire when the dependencies are updated
  errorHandler // (err, {moduleId, dependencyId}) => {}
);
```

When using ESM `import` all imported symbols from `dependencies` are automatically updated. Note: The dependency string must match exactly with the `from` string in the `import`. In some cases `callback` can even be omitted. Using `require()` in the `callback` doesn't make sense here.

When using CommonJS you need to update dependencies manually by using `require()` in the `callback`. Omitting the `callback` doesn't make sense here.

#### errorHandler for accept

`(err, {moduleId, dependencyId}) => {}`

- `err`: the error thrown by the callback in second argument or during dependency execution when using ESM dependencies.
- `moduleId`: the current module id.
- `dependencyId`: the module id of the (first) changed dependency.

### `accept` (self)

Accept updates for itself.

```js
module.hot.accept(
  errorHandler // Function to handle errors when evaluating the new version
);

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.accept(
  errorHandler // Function to handle errors when evaluating the new version
);
```

When this module or dependencies are updated, this module can be disposed and re-evaluated without informing parents. This makes sense if this module has no exports (or exports are updated in another way).

The `errorHandler` is fired when the evaluation of this module (or dependencies) has thrown an exception.

#### errorHandler for self accept

`(err, {moduleId, module}) => {}`

- `err`: the error when evaluating the new version.
- `moduleId`: the current module id.
- `module`: the current module instance.
  - `module.hot`: allow to use the HMR API of the errored module instance. A common scenario is to self accept it again. It also makes sense to add a dispose handler to pass data along. Note that the errored module might be already partially executed, so make sure to not get into a inconsistent state. You can use `module.hot.data` to store partial state.
  - `module.exports`: can be overriden, but be careful since property names might be mangled in production mode.

### `decline`

Reject updates for the given `dependencies` forcing the update to fail with a `'decline'` code.

```js
module.hot.decline(
  dependencies // Either a string or an array of strings
);

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.decline(
  dependencies // Either a string or an array of strings
);
```

Flag a dependency as not-update-able. This makes sense when changing exports of this dependency can't be handled or handling is not implemented yet. Depending on your HMR management code, an update to these dependencies (or unaccepted dependencies of it) usually causes a full-reload of the page.

### `decline` (self)

Reject updates for itself.

```js
module.hot.decline();

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.decline();
```

Flag this module as not-update-able. This makes sense when this module has irreversible side-effects, or HMR handling is not implemented for this module yet. Depending on your HMR management code, an update to this module (or unaccepted dependencies) usually causes a full-reload of the page.

### `dispose` (or `addDisposeHandler`)

Add a handler which is executed when the current module code is replaced. This should be used to remove any persistent resource you have claimed or created. If you want to transfer state to the updated module, add it to the given `data` parameter. This object will be available at `module.hot.data` after the update.

```js
module.hot.dispose((data) => {
  // Clean up and pass data to the updated module...
});

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.dispose((data) => {
  // Clean up and pass data to the updated module...
});
```

### `invalidate`

Calling this method will invalidate the current module, which disposes and recreates it when the HMR update is applied. This bubbles like a normal update of this module. `invalidate` can't be self-accepted by this module.

When called during the `idle` state, a new HMR update will be created containing this module. HMR will enter the `ready` state.

When called during the `ready` or `prepare` state, this module will be added to the current HMR update.

When called during the `check` state, this module will be added to the update when an update is available. If no update is available it will create a new update. HMR will enter the `ready` state.

When called during the `dispose` or `apply` state, HMR will pick it up after getting out of those states.

#### Use Cases

**Conditional Accepting**

A module can accept a dependency, but can call `invalidate` when the change of the dependency is not handleable:

```js
import { x, y } from './dep';
import { processX, processY } from 'anotherDep';

const oldY = y;

processX(x);
export default processY(y);

module.hot.accept('./dep', () => {
  if (y !== oldY) {
    // This can't be handled, bubble to parent
    module.hot.invalidate();
    return;
  }
  // This can be handled
  processX(x);
});
```

**Conditional self accept**

A module can self-accept itself, but can invalidate itself when the change is not handleable:

```javascript
const VALUE = 'constant';

export default VALUE;

if (
  module.hot.data &&
  module.hot.data.value &&
  module.hot.data.value !== VALUE
) {
  module.hot.invalidate();
} else {
  module.hot.dispose((data) => {
    data.value = VALUE;
  });
  module.hot.accept();
}
```

**Triggering custom HMR updates**

```javascript
const moduleId = chooseAModule();
const code = __webpack_modules__[moduleId].toString();
__webpack_modules__[moduleId] = eval(`(${makeChanges(code)})`);
if (require.cache[moduleId]) {
  require.cache[moduleId].hot.invalidate();
  module.hot.apply();
}
```

T> When `invalidate` is called, the [`dispose`](#dispose-or-adddisposehandler) handler will be eventually called and fill `module.hot.data`. If [`dispose`](#dispose-or-adddisposehandler) handler is not registered, an empty object will be supplied to `module.hot.data`.

W> Do not get caught in an `invalidate` loop, by calling `invalidate` again and again. This will result in stack overflow and HMR entering the `fail` state.

### `removeDisposeHandler`

Remove the handler added via `dispose` or `addDisposeHandler`.

```js
module.hot.removeDisposeHandler(callback);

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.removeDisposeHandler(callback);
```

## Management API

### `status`

Retrieve the current status of the hot module replacement process.

```js
module.hot.status(); // Will return one of the following strings...

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.status();
```

| Status  | Description                                                                         |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| idle    | The process is waiting for a call to [`check`](#check)                              |
| check   | The process is checking for updates                                                 |
| prepare | The process is getting ready for the update (e.g. downloading the updated module)   |
| ready   | The update is prepared and available                                                |
| dispose | The process is calling the `dispose` handlers on the modules that will be replaced  |
| apply   | The process is calling the `accept` handlers and re-executing self-accepted modules |
| abort   | An update was aborted, but the system is still in its previous state                |
| fail    | An update has thrown an exception and the system's state has been compromised       |

### `check`

Test all loaded modules for updates and, if updates exist, `apply` them.

```js
module.hot
  .check(autoApply)
  .then((outdatedModules) => {
    // outdated modules...
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    // catch errors
  });

// or
import.meta.webpackHot
  .check(autoApply)
  .then((outdatedModules) => {
    // outdated modules...
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    // catch errors
  });
```

The `autoApply` parameter can either be a boolean or `options` to pass to the `apply` method when called.

### `apply`

Continue the update process (as long as `module.hot.status() === 'ready'`).

```js
module.hot
  .apply(options)
  .then((outdatedModules) => {
    // outdated modules...
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    // catch errors
  });

// or
import.meta.webpackHot
  .apply(options)
  .then((outdatedModules) => {
    // outdated modules...
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    // catch errors
  });
```

The optional `options` object can include the following properties:

- `ignoreUnaccepted` (boolean): Ignore changes made to unaccepted modules.
- `ignoreDeclined` (boolean): Ignore changes made to declined modules.
- `ignoreErrored` (boolean): Ignore errors thrown in accept handlers, error handlers and while reevaluating module.
- `onDeclined` (function(info)): Notifier for declined modules
- `onUnaccepted` (function(info)): Notifier for unaccepted modules
- `onAccepted` (function(info)): Notifier for accepted modules
- `onDisposed` (function(info)): Notifier for disposed modules
- `onErrored` (function(info)): Notifier for errors

The `info` parameter will be an object containing some of the following values:

<!-- eslint-skip -->

```js
{
  type: 'self-declined' | 'declined' |
        'unaccepted' | 'accepted' |
        'disposed' | 'accept-errored' |
        'self-accept-errored' | 'self-accept-error-handler-errored',
  moduleId: 4, // The module in question.
  dependencyId: 3, // For errors: the module id owning the accept handler.
  chain: [1, 2, 3, 4], // For declined/accepted/unaccepted: the chain from where the update was propagated.
  parentId: 5, // For declined: the module id of the declining parent
  outdatedModules: [1, 2, 3, 4], // For accepted: the modules that are outdated and will be disposed
  outdatedDependencies: { // For accepted: The location of accept handlers that will handle the update
    5: [4]
  },
  error: new Error(...), // For errors: the thrown error
  originalError: new Error(...) // For self-accept-error-handler-errored:
                                // the error thrown by the module before the error handler tried to handle it.
}
```

### `addStatusHandler`

Register a function to listen for changes in `status`.

```js
module.hot.addStatusHandler((status) => {
  // React to the current status...
});

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.addStatusHandler((status) => {
  // React to the current status...
});
```

### `removeStatusHandler`

Remove a registered status handler.

```js
module.hot.removeStatusHandler(callback);

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.removeStatusHandler(callback);
```

Commit message:

docs(api): add tip for status handler in HMR API (#5215)
* docs(api): add tip for status handler in HMR API

* Update src/content/api/hot-module-replacement.mdx

Co-authored-by: Sam Chen <chenxsan@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: Sam Chen <chenxsan@gmail.com>

src/content/api/hot-module-replacement.mdx, after:

---
title: Hot Module Replacement
sort: 4
contributors:
  - sokra
  - skipjack
  - tbroadley
  - byzyk
  - wizardofhogwarts
  - snitin315
related:
  - title: Concepts - Hot Module Replacement
    url: /concepts/hot-module-replacement
  - title: Guides - Hot Module Replacement
    url: /guides/hot-module-replacement
---

If [Hot Module Replacement](/concepts/hot-module-replacement) has been enabled via the [`HotModuleReplacementPlugin`](/plugins/hot-module-replacement-plugin), its interface will be exposed under the [`module.hot`](/api/module-variables/#modulehot-webpack-specific) property as well as [`import.meta.webpackHot`](/api/module-variables/#importmetawebpackhot) property. Note that only `import.meta.webpackHot` can be used in [strict ESM](/guides/ecma-script-modules/#flagging-modules-as-esm).

Typically, users will check to see if the interface is accessible, then begin working with it. As an example, here's how you might `accept` an updated module:

```js
if (module.hot) {
  module.hot.accept('./library.js', function () {
    // Do something with the updated library module...
  });
}

// or
if (import.meta.webpackHot) {
  import.meta.webpackHot.accept('./library.js', function () {
    // Do something with the updated library modue…
  });
}
```

The following methods are supported...

## Module API

### `accept`

Accept updates for the given `dependencies` and fire a `callback` to react to those updates, in addition, you can attach an optional error handler:

```js
module.hot.accept(
  dependencies, // Either a string or an array of strings
  callback, // Function to fire when the dependencies are updated
  errorHandler // (err, {moduleId, dependencyId}) => {}
);

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.accept(
  dependencies, // Either a string or an array of strings
  callback, // Function to fire when the dependencies are updated
  errorHandler // (err, {moduleId, dependencyId}) => {}
);
```

When using ESM `import` all imported symbols from `dependencies` are automatically updated. Note: The dependency string must match exactly with the `from` string in the `import`. In some cases `callback` can even be omitted. Using `require()` in the `callback` doesn't make sense here.

When using CommonJS you need to update dependencies manually by using `require()` in the `callback`. Omitting the `callback` doesn't make sense here.

#### errorHandler for accept

`(err, {moduleId, dependencyId}) => {}`

- `err`: the error thrown by the callback in second argument or during dependency execution when using ESM dependencies.
- `moduleId`: the current module id.
- `dependencyId`: the module id of the (first) changed dependency.

### `accept` (self)

Accept updates for itself.

```js
module.hot.accept(
  errorHandler // Function to handle errors when evaluating the new version
);

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.accept(
  errorHandler // Function to handle errors when evaluating the new version
);
```

When this module or dependencies are updated, this module can be disposed and re-evaluated without informing parents. This makes sense if this module has no exports (or exports are updated in another way).

The `errorHandler` is fired when the evaluation of this module (or dependencies) has thrown an exception.

#### errorHandler for self accept

`(err, {moduleId, module}) => {}`

- `err`: the error when evaluating the new version.
- `moduleId`: the current module id.
- `module`: the current module instance.
  - `module.hot`: allow to use the HMR API of the errored module instance. A common scenario is to self accept it again. It also makes sense to add a dispose handler to pass data along. Note that the errored module might be already partially executed, so make sure to not get into a inconsistent state. You can use `module.hot.data` to store partial state.
  - `module.exports`: can be overriden, but be careful since property names might be mangled in production mode.

### `decline`

Reject updates for the given `dependencies` forcing the update to fail with a `'decline'` code.

```js
module.hot.decline(
  dependencies // Either a string or an array of strings
);

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.decline(
  dependencies // Either a string or an array of strings
);
```

Flag a dependency as not-update-able. This makes sense when changing exports of this dependency can't be handled or handling is not implemented yet. Depending on your HMR management code, an update to these dependencies (or unaccepted dependencies of it) usually causes a full-reload of the page.

### `decline` (self)

Reject updates for itself.

```js
module.hot.decline();

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.decline();
```

Flag this module as not-update-able. This makes sense when this module has irreversible side-effects, or HMR handling is not implemented for this module yet. Depending on your HMR management code, an update to this module (or unaccepted dependencies) usually causes a full-reload of the page.

### `dispose` (or `addDisposeHandler`)

Add a handler which is executed when the current module code is replaced. This should be used to remove any persistent resource you have claimed or created. If you want to transfer state to the updated module, add it to the given `data` parameter. This object will be available at `module.hot.data` after the update.

```js
module.hot.dispose((data) => {
  // Clean up and pass data to the updated module...
});

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.dispose((data) => {
  // Clean up and pass data to the updated module...
});
```

### `invalidate`

Calling this method will invalidate the current module, which disposes and recreates it when the HMR update is applied. This bubbles like a normal update of this module. `invalidate` can't be self-accepted by this module.

When called during the `idle` state, a new HMR update will be created containing this module. HMR will enter the `ready` state.

When called during the `ready` or `prepare` state, this module will be added to the current HMR update.

When called during the `check` state, this module will be added to the update when an update is available. If no update is available it will create a new update. HMR will enter the `ready` state.

When called during the `dispose` or `apply` state, HMR will pick it up after getting out of those states.

#### Use Cases

**Conditional Accepting**

A module can accept a dependency, but can call `invalidate` when the change of the dependency is not handleable:

```js
import { x, y } from './dep';
import { processX, processY } from 'anotherDep';

const oldY = y;

processX(x);
export default processY(y);

module.hot.accept('./dep', () => {
  if (y !== oldY) {
    // This can't be handled, bubble to parent
    module.hot.invalidate();
    return;
  }
  // This can be handled
  processX(x);
});
```

**Conditional self accept**

A module can self-accept itself, but can invalidate itself when the change is not handleable:

```javascript
const VALUE = 'constant';

export default VALUE;

if (
  module.hot.data &&
  module.hot.data.value &&
  module.hot.data.value !== VALUE
) {
  module.hot.invalidate();
} else {
  module.hot.dispose((data) => {
    data.value = VALUE;
  });
  module.hot.accept();
}
```

**Triggering custom HMR updates**

```javascript
const moduleId = chooseAModule();
const code = __webpack_modules__[moduleId].toString();
__webpack_modules__[moduleId] = eval(`(${makeChanges(code)})`);
if (require.cache[moduleId]) {
  require.cache[moduleId].hot.invalidate();
  module.hot.apply();
}
```

T> When `invalidate` is called, the [`dispose`](#dispose-or-adddisposehandler) handler will be eventually called and fill `module.hot.data`. If [`dispose`](#dispose-or-adddisposehandler) handler is not registered, an empty object will be supplied to `module.hot.data`.

W> Do not get caught in an `invalidate` loop, by calling `invalidate` again and again. This will result in stack overflow and HMR entering the `fail` state.

### `removeDisposeHandler`

Remove the handler added via `dispose` or `addDisposeHandler`.

```js
module.hot.removeDisposeHandler(callback);

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.removeDisposeHandler(callback);
```

## Management API

### `status`

Retrieve the current status of the hot module replacement process.

```js
module.hot.status(); // Will return one of the following strings...

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.status();
```

| Status  | Description                                                                         |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| idle    | The process is waiting for a call to [`check`](#check)                              |
| check   | The process is checking for updates                                                 |
| prepare | The process is getting ready for the update (e.g. downloading the updated module)   |
| ready   | The update is prepared and available                                                |
| dispose | The process is calling the `dispose` handlers on the modules that will be replaced  |
| apply   | The process is calling the `accept` handlers and re-executing self-accepted modules |
| abort   | An update was aborted, but the system is still in its previous state                |
| fail    | An update has thrown an exception and the system's state has been compromised       |

### `check`

Test all loaded modules for updates and, if updates exist, `apply` them.

```js
module.hot
  .check(autoApply)
  .then((outdatedModules) => {
    // outdated modules...
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    // catch errors
  });

// or
import.meta.webpackHot
  .check(autoApply)
  .then((outdatedModules) => {
    // outdated modules...
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    // catch errors
  });
```

The `autoApply` parameter can either be a boolean or `options` to pass to the `apply` method when called.

### `apply`

Continue the update process (as long as `module.hot.status() === 'ready'`).

```js
module.hot
  .apply(options)
  .then((outdatedModules) => {
    // outdated modules...
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    // catch errors
  });

// or
import.meta.webpackHot
  .apply(options)
  .then((outdatedModules) => {
    // outdated modules...
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    // catch errors
  });
```

The optional `options` object can include the following properties:

- `ignoreUnaccepted` (boolean): Ignore changes made to unaccepted modules.
- `ignoreDeclined` (boolean): Ignore changes made to declined modules.
- `ignoreErrored` (boolean): Ignore errors thrown in accept handlers, error handlers and while reevaluating module.
- `onDeclined` (function(info)): Notifier for declined modules
- `onUnaccepted` (function(info)): Notifier for unaccepted modules
- `onAccepted` (function(info)): Notifier for accepted modules
- `onDisposed` (function(info)): Notifier for disposed modules
- `onErrored` (function(info)): Notifier for errors

The `info` parameter will be an object containing some of the following values:

<!-- eslint-skip -->

```js
{
  type: 'self-declined' | 'declined' |
        'unaccepted' | 'accepted' |
        'disposed' | 'accept-errored' |
        'self-accept-errored' | 'self-accept-error-handler-errored',
  moduleId: 4, // The module in question.
  dependencyId: 3, // For errors: the module id owning the accept handler.
  chain: [1, 2, 3, 4], // For declined/accepted/unaccepted: the chain from where the update was propagated.
  parentId: 5, // For declined: the module id of the declining parent
  outdatedModules: [1, 2, 3, 4], // For accepted: the modules that are outdated and will be disposed
  outdatedDependencies: { // For accepted: The location of accept handlers that will handle the update
    5: [4]
  },
  error: new Error(...), // For errors: the thrown error
  originalError: new Error(...) // For self-accept-error-handler-errored:
                                // the error thrown by the module before the error handler tried to handle it.
}
```

### `addStatusHandler`

Register a function to listen for changes in `status`.

```js
module.hot.addStatusHandler((status) => {
  // React to the current status...
});

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.addStatusHandler((status) => {
  // React to the current status...
});
```

Bear in mind that when the status handler returns a `Promise`, the HMR system will wait for the `Promise` to resolve before continuing.

### `removeStatusHandler`

Remove a registered status handler.

```js
module.hot.removeStatusHandler(callback);

// or
import.meta.webpackHot.removeStatusHandler(callback);
```
