src/content/api/module-variables.mdx, before:

---
title: Module Variables
group: Modules
sort: 8
contributors:
  - skipjack
  - sokra
  - ahmehri
  - tbroadley
  - byzyk
  - EugeneHlushko
  - wizardofhogwarts
  - anikethsaha
  - chenxsan
  - jamesgeorge007
related:
  - title: CommonJS
    url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CommonJS
  - title: Asynchronous Module Definition
    url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asynchronous_module_definition
---

This section covers all **variables** available in code compiled with webpack. Modules will have access to certain data from the compilation process through `module` and other variables.

### `module.loaded` (NodeJS)

This is `false` if the module is currently executing, and `true` if the sync execution has finished.

### `module.hot` (webpack-specific)

Indicates whether or not [Hot Module Replacement](/concepts/hot-module-replacement) is enabled and provides an interface to the process. See the [HMR API page](/api/hot-module-replacement) for details.

### `module.id` (CommonJS)

The ID of the current module.

```javascript
module.id === require.resolve('./file.js');
```

### `module.exports` (CommonJS)

Defines the value that will be returned when a consumer makes a `require` call to the module (defaults to a new object).

```javascript
module.exports = function doSomething() {
  // Do something...
};
```

W> This CANNOT be used in an asynchronous function.

### `exports` (CommonJS)

This variable is equal to the default value of `module.exports` (i.e. an object). If `module.exports` gets overwritten, `exports` will no longer be exported.

```javascript
exports.someValue = 42;
exports.anObject = {
  x: 123,
};
exports.aFunction = function doSomething() {
  // Do something
};
```

### `global` (NodeJS)

See [node.js global](https://nodejs.org/api/globals.html#globals_global).

For compatibility reasons webpack polyfills the `global` variable by default.

### `__dirname` (NodeJS)

Depending on the configuration option `node.__dirname`:

- `false`: Not defined
- `mock`: equal to `'/'`
- `true`: [node.js \_\_dirname](https://nodejs.org/api/globals.html#globals_dirname)

If used inside an expression that is parsed by the Parser, the configuration option is treated as `true`.

### `import.meta.url`

Returns the absolute `file:` URL of the module.

**src/index.js**

```javascript
console.log(import.meta.url); // output something like `file:///path/to/your/project/src/index.js`
```

### `import.meta.webpack`

Returns the webpack version.

**src/index.js**

```javascript
console.log(import.meta.webpack); // output `5` for webpack 5
```

### `__filename` (NodeJS)

Depending on the configuration option `node.__filename`:

- `false`: Not defined
- `mock`: equal to `'/index.js'`
- `true`: [node.js \_\_filename](https://nodejs.org/api/globals.html#globals_filename)

If used inside an expression that is parsed by the Parser, the configuration option is treated as `true`.

### `__resourceQuery` (webpack-specific)

The resource query of the current module. If the following `require` call was made, then the query string would be available in `file.js`.

```javascript
require('file.js?test');
```

**file.js**

```javascript
__resourceQuery === '?test';
```

### `__webpack_public_path__` (webpack-specific)

Equals the configuration option's `output.publicPath`.

### `__webpack_require__` (webpack-specific)

The raw require function. This expression isn't parsed by the Parser for dependencies.

### \_\_webpack_chunk_load\_\_ (webpack-specific)

The internal chunk loading function. Takes one argument:

- `chunkId` The id for the chunk to load.

Example to load chunks from alternate public path when one failed:

```js
const originalLoad = __webpack_chunk_load__;
const publicPaths = ['a', 'b', 'c'];
__webpack_chunk_load__ = async (id) => {
  let error;
  for (const path of publicPaths) {
    __webpack_public_path__ = path;
    try {
      return await originalLoad(id);
    } catch (e) {
      error = e;
    }
  }
  throw error;
};
import('./module-a').then((moduleA) => {
  // now webpack will use the custom __webpack_chunk_load__ to load chunk
});
```

### `__webpack_modules__` (webpack-specific)

Access to the internal object of all modules.

### `__webpack_hash__` (webpack-specific)

It provides access to the hash of the compilation.

### `__non_webpack_require__` (webpack-specific)

Generates a `require` function that is not parsed by webpack. Can be used to do cool stuff with a global require function if available.

### `__webpack_exports_info__` (webpack-specific)

In modules, `__webpack_exports_info__` is available to allow exports introspection:

- `__webpack_exports_info__` is always `true`

- `__webpack_exports_info__.<exportName>.used` is `false` when the export is known to be unused, `true` otherwise

- `__webpack_exports_info__.<exportName>.useInfo` is

  - `false` when the export is known to be unused
  - `true` when the export is known to be used
  - `null` when the export usage could depend on runtime conditions
  - `undefined` when no info is available

- `__webpack_exports_info__.<exportName>.provideInfo` is

  - `false` when the export is known to be not provided
  - `true` when the export is known to be provided
  - `null` when the export provision could depend on runtime conditions
  - `undefined` when no info is available

- Accessing the info from nested exports is possible: i. e. `__webpack_exports_info__.<exportName>.<exportName>.<exportName>.used`

### `__webpack_is_included__` (webpack-specific)

<Badge text="5.16.0+" />

Test whether or not the given module is bundled by webpack.

```js
if (__webpack_is_included__('./module-a.js')) {
  // do something
}
```

### \_\_webpack_base_uri\_\_ (webpack-specific)

Change base URI at runtime.

- Type: `string`
- Available: 5.21.0+
- Example:
  ```js
  __webpack_base_uri__ = 'https://example.com';
  ```

### `DEBUG` (webpack-specific)

Equals the configuration option `debug`.

Commit message:

docs(api): document import.meta.webpackHot (#4781)
* docs(api): document import.meta.webpackHot

* add links

* add link to strict esm

* little update

src/content/api/module-variables.mdx, after:

---
title: Module Variables
group: Modules
sort: 8
contributors:
  - skipjack
  - sokra
  - ahmehri
  - tbroadley
  - byzyk
  - EugeneHlushko
  - wizardofhogwarts
  - anikethsaha
  - chenxsan
  - jamesgeorge007
related:
  - title: CommonJS
    url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CommonJS
  - title: Asynchronous Module Definition
    url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asynchronous_module_definition
---

This section covers all **variables** available in code compiled with webpack. Modules will have access to certain data from the compilation process through `module` and other variables.

### `module.loaded` (NodeJS)

This is `false` if the module is currently executing, and `true` if the sync execution has finished.

### `module.hot` (webpack-specific)

Indicates whether or not [Hot Module Replacement](/concepts/hot-module-replacement) is enabled and provides an interface to the process. See the [HMR API page](/api/hot-module-replacement) for details.

### `module.id` (CommonJS)

The ID of the current module.

```javascript
module.id === require.resolve('./file.js');
```

### `module.exports` (CommonJS)

Defines the value that will be returned when a consumer makes a `require` call to the module (defaults to a new object).

```javascript
module.exports = function doSomething() {
  // Do something...
};
```

W> This CANNOT be used in an asynchronous function.

### `exports` (CommonJS)

This variable is equal to the default value of `module.exports` (i.e. an object). If `module.exports` gets overwritten, `exports` will no longer be exported.

```javascript
exports.someValue = 42;
exports.anObject = {
  x: 123,
};
exports.aFunction = function doSomething() {
  // Do something
};
```

### `global` (NodeJS)

See [node.js global](https://nodejs.org/api/globals.html#globals_global).

For compatibility reasons webpack polyfills the `global` variable by default.

### `__dirname` (NodeJS)

Depending on the configuration option `node.__dirname`:

- `false`: Not defined
- `mock`: equal to `'/'`
- `true`: [node.js \_\_dirname](https://nodejs.org/api/globals.html#globals_dirname)

If used inside an expression that is parsed by the Parser, the configuration option is treated as `true`.

### `import.meta.url`

Returns the absolute `file:` URL of the module.

**src/index.js**

```javascript
console.log(import.meta.url); // output something like `file:///path/to/your/project/src/index.js`
```

### `import.meta.webpack`

Returns the webpack version.

**src/index.js**

```javascript
console.log(import.meta.webpack); // output `5` for webpack 5
```

### import.meta.webpackHot

Webpack specific. An alias for [`module.hot`](#modulehot-webpack-specific), however `import.meta.webpackHot` can be used in [strict ESM](/guides/ecma-script-modules/#flagging-modules-as-esm) while `module.hot` can't.

### `__filename` (NodeJS)

Depending on the configuration option `node.__filename`:

- `false`: Not defined
- `mock`: equal to `'/index.js'`
- `true`: [node.js \_\_filename](https://nodejs.org/api/globals.html#globals_filename)

If used inside an expression that is parsed by the Parser, the configuration option is treated as `true`.

### `__resourceQuery` (webpack-specific)

The resource query of the current module. If the following `require` call was made, then the query string would be available in `file.js`.

```javascript
require('file.js?test');
```

**file.js**

```javascript
__resourceQuery === '?test';
```

### `__webpack_public_path__` (webpack-specific)

Equals the configuration option's `output.publicPath`.

### `__webpack_require__` (webpack-specific)

The raw require function. This expression isn't parsed by the Parser for dependencies.

### \_\_webpack_chunk_load\_\_ (webpack-specific)

The internal chunk loading function. Takes one argument:

- `chunkId` The id for the chunk to load.

Example to load chunks from alternate public path when one failed:

```js
const originalLoad = __webpack_chunk_load__;
const publicPaths = ['a', 'b', 'c'];
__webpack_chunk_load__ = async (id) => {
  let error;
  for (const path of publicPaths) {
    __webpack_public_path__ = path;
    try {
      return await originalLoad(id);
    } catch (e) {
      error = e;
    }
  }
  throw error;
};
import('./module-a').then((moduleA) => {
  // now webpack will use the custom __webpack_chunk_load__ to load chunk
});
```

### `__webpack_modules__` (webpack-specific)

Access to the internal object of all modules.

### `__webpack_hash__` (webpack-specific)

It provides access to the hash of the compilation.

### `__non_webpack_require__` (webpack-specific)

Generates a `require` function that is not parsed by webpack. Can be used to do cool stuff with a global require function if available.

### `__webpack_exports_info__` (webpack-specific)

In modules, `__webpack_exports_info__` is available to allow exports introspection:

- `__webpack_exports_info__` is always `true`

- `__webpack_exports_info__.<exportName>.used` is `false` when the export is known to be unused, `true` otherwise

- `__webpack_exports_info__.<exportName>.useInfo` is

  - `false` when the export is known to be unused
  - `true` when the export is known to be used
  - `null` when the export usage could depend on runtime conditions
  - `undefined` when no info is available

- `__webpack_exports_info__.<exportName>.provideInfo` is

  - `false` when the export is known to be not provided
  - `true` when the export is known to be provided
  - `null` when the export provision could depend on runtime conditions
  - `undefined` when no info is available

- Accessing the info from nested exports is possible: i. e. `__webpack_exports_info__.<exportName>.<exportName>.<exportName>.used`

### `__webpack_is_included__` (webpack-specific)

<Badge text="5.16.0+" />

Test whether or not the given module is bundled by webpack.

```js
if (__webpack_is_included__('./module-a.js')) {
  // do something
}
```

### \_\_webpack_base_uri\_\_ (webpack-specific)

Change base URI at runtime.

- Type: `string`
- Available: 5.21.0+
- Example:
  ```js
  __webpack_base_uri__ = 'https://example.com';
  ```

### `DEBUG` (webpack-specific)

Equals the configuration option `debug`.
