---
title: To v4 from v3
sort: 1
contributors:
  - sokra
  - EugeneHlushko
---

This guide only shows major changes that affect end users. For more details please see [the changelog](https://github.com/webpack/webpack/releases).


## Node.js v4

*TLDR:; Node.js versions lower than 6 are no longer supported. So, upgrade to the latest Node.js LTS verison.*

If you are still using Node.js v4 or lower, you need to upgrade your Node.js installation to Node.js v6 or higher. Ideally you should be getting the latest Long Term Support(LTS) version of Node.js. Instructions for upgrading your Node.js version can be found [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10075990/upgrading-node-js-to-latest-version). This is because the source of webpack was changed to a higher ECMAScript version in webpack 4.

## CLI

The CLI has moved to a separate package: webpack-cli. You need to install it before using webpack, see [basic setup](/guides/getting-started/#basic-setup).

The installation guide can be found [here](/src/content/guides/installation.md).


## Update plugins

Many 3rd party plugins need to be updated to the latest versions to be compatible with webpack 4. Many of the popular plugins and the links to their repositories can be found [here](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/awesome-webpack#webpack-plugins).

A more informative resource can be found [here](https://medium.com/webpack/webpack-4-migration-guide-for-plugins-loaders-20a79b927202).


## mode

Add the new [`mode`](/concepts/mode/) option to your config. Set it to production or development in your configuration depending on config type.

More information on the different types of `mode`'s like `none`, `development`, and `production` are mentioned in [here](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/mode/#usage).

__webpack.config.js__

``` diff
module.exports = {
  // ...
  mode: 'production',
}
```

Alternatively you can pass it via CLI: `--mode production`/ `--mode development`

T> Since the goals of the `development` and `production` versions are different. You could use `webpack-merge` to use the best of both modes. Read more [here](https://github.com/webpack/webpack.js.org/blob/master/src/content/guides/production.md)

## Deprecated/Removed plugins

These plugins can be removed from configuration as they are default in production mode:

__webpack.config.js__

``` diff
module.exports = {
  // ...
  plugins: [
-    new NoEmitOnErrorsPlugin(),
-    new ModuleConcatenationPlugin(),
-    new DefinePlugin({ "process.env.NODE_ENV": JSON.stringify("production") })
-    new UglifyJsPlugin()
  ],
}
```

These plugins are default in development mode

__webpack.config.js__

``` diff
module.exports = {
  // ...
  plugins: [
-    new NamedModulesPlugin()
  ],
}
```

These plugins were deprecated and are now removed:

__webpack.config.js__

``` diff
module.exports = {
  // ...
  plugins: [
-    new NoErrorsPlugin(),
-    new NewWatchingPlugin()
  ],
}
```


## CommonsChunkPlugin

The `CommonsChunkPlugin` was removed. Instead the [`optimization.splitChunks`](/configuration/optimization/#optimization-splitchunks) options can be used.

See documentation of the [`optimization.splitChunks`](/configuration/optimization/#optimization-splitchunks) for more details. The default configuration may already suit your needs.

More information on this change is mentioned in [here](https://gist.github.com/sokra/1522d586b8e5c0f5072d7565c2bee693).

T> When generating the HTML from the stats you can use `optimization.splitChunks.chunks: "all"` which is the optimal configuration in most cases.

## import() and CommonJS

When using `import()` to load non-ESM the result has changed in webpack 4. Now you need to access the `default` property to get the value of `module.exports`.

__non-esm.js__

``` javascript
module.exports = {
  sayHello: () => {
    console.log('hello world');
  }
};
```

__example.js__

``` javascript
function sayHello() {
  import('./non-esm.js').then(module => {
    module.default.sayHello();
  });
}
```

## json and loaders

When using a custom loader to transform `.json` files you now need to change the module `type`:

__webpack.config.js__

``` diff
module.exports = {
  // ...
  rules: [
    {
      test: /config\.json$/,
      loader: 'special-loader',
+     type: 'javascript/auto',
      options: {...}
    }
  ]
};
```

When still using the `json-loader`, it can be removed:

__webpack.config.js__

``` diff
module.exports = {
  // ...
  rules: [
    {
-     test: /\.json$/,
-     loader: 'json-loader'
    }
  ]
};
```

## module.loaders

`module.loaders` were deprecated since webpack 2 and are now removed in favor of [`module.rules`](/configuration/module/#rule).
