src/content/plugins/normal-module-replacement-plugin.mdx, before:

---
title: NormalModuleReplacementPlugin
group: webpack
contributors:
  - gonzoyumo
  - byzyk
---

The `NormalModuleReplacementPlugin` allows you to replace resources that match `resourceRegExp` with `newResource`. If `newResource` is relative, it is resolved relative to the previous resource. If `newResource` is a function, it is expected to overwrite the request attribute of the supplied resource.

This can be useful for allowing different behaviour between builds.

```js
new webpack.NormalModuleReplacementPlugin(resourceRegExp, newResource);
```

## Basic Example

Replace a specific module when building for a [development environment](/guides/production).

Say you have a configuration file `some/path/config.development.module.js` and a special version for production in `some/path/config.production.module.js`

Add the following plugin when building for production:

```javascript
new webpack.NormalModuleReplacementPlugin(
  /some\/path\/config\.development\.js/,
  './config.production.js'
);
```

## Advanced Example

Conditional build depending on an [specified environment](/configuration/configuration-types).

Say you want a configuration with specific values for different build targets.

```javascript
module.exports = function (env) {
  var appTarget = env.APP_TARGET || 'VERSION_A';
  return {
    plugins: [
      new webpack.NormalModuleReplacementPlugin(
        /(.*)-APP_TARGET(\.*)/,
        function (resource) {
          resource.request = resource.request.replace(
            /-APP_TARGET/,
            `-${appTarget}`
          );
        }
      ),
    ],
  };
};
```

Create the two configuration files:

**app/config-VERSION_A.js**

```javascript
export default {
  title: 'I am version A',
};
```

**app/config-VERSION_B.js**

```javascript
export default {
  title: 'I am version B',
};
```

Then import that configuration using the keyword you're looking for in the regexp:

```javascript
import config from 'app/config-APP_TARGET';
console.log(config.title);
```

And now you get the right configuration imported depending on which target you're building for:

```bash
npx webpack --env APP_TARGET=VERSION_A
=> 'I am version A'

npx webpack --env APP_TARGET=VERSION_B
=> 'I am version B'
```

Commit message:

docs(plugins): add a note for resourceRegExp

src/content/plugins/normal-module-replacement-plugin.mdx, after:

---
title: NormalModuleReplacementPlugin
group: webpack
contributors:
  - gonzoyumo
  - byzyk
  - chenxsan
---

The `NormalModuleReplacementPlugin` allows you to replace resources that match `resourceRegExp` with `newResource`. If `newResource` is relative, it is resolved relative to the previous resource. If `newResource` is a function, it is expected to overwrite the request attribute of the supplied resource.

This can be useful for allowing different behaviour between builds.

```js
new webpack.NormalModuleReplacementPlugin(resourceRegExp, newResource);
```

Note that the `resourceRegExp` is tested against the request you write in your code, not the resolved resource. For instance, `'./sum'` will be used to test instead of `./sum.js` when you have code `import sum from './sum'`.

## Basic Example

Replace a specific module when building for a [development environment](/guides/production).

Say you have a configuration file `some/path/config.development.module.js` and a special version for production in `some/path/config.production.module.js`

Add the following plugin when building for production:

```javascript
new webpack.NormalModuleReplacementPlugin(
  /some\/path\/config\.development\.js/,
  './config.production.js'
);
```

## Advanced Example

Conditional build depending on an [specified environment](/configuration/configuration-types).

Say you want a configuration with specific values for different build targets.

```javascript
module.exports = function (env) {
  var appTarget = env.APP_TARGET || 'VERSION_A';
  return {
    plugins: [
      new webpack.NormalModuleReplacementPlugin(
        /(.*)-APP_TARGET(\.*)/,
        function (resource) {
          resource.request = resource.request.replace(
            /-APP_TARGET/,
            `-${appTarget}`
          );
        }
      ),
    ],
  };
};
```

Create the two configuration files:

**app/config-VERSION_A.js**

```javascript
export default {
  title: 'I am version A',
};
```

**app/config-VERSION_B.js**

```javascript
export default {
  title: 'I am version B',
};
```

Then import that configuration using the keyword you're looking for in the regexp:

```javascript
import config from 'app/config-APP_TARGET';
console.log(config.title);
```

And now you get the right configuration imported depending on which target you're building for:

```bash
npx webpack --env APP_TARGET=VERSION_A
=> 'I am version A'

npx webpack --env APP_TARGET=VERSION_B
=> 'I am version B'
```
