src/content/configuration/experiments.mdx, before:

---
title: Experiments
sort: 19
contributors:
  - EugeneHlushko
  - wizardofhogwarts
  - chenxsan
  - anshumanv
---

## `experiments`

`boolean: false`

`experiments` option was introduced in webpack 5 to empower users with the ability to activate and try out experimental features.

W> Because experimental features have relaxed semantic versioning and might contain breaking changes, make sure to fix webpack's version to minor e.g. `webpack: ~5.4.3` instead of `webpack: ^5.4.3` or use a lockfile when using `experiments`.

Available options:

- `syncWebAssembly`: Support the old WebAssembly like in webpack 4
- `asyncWebAssembly`: Support the new WebAssembly according to the [updated specification](https://github.com/WebAssembly/esm-integration), it makes a WebAssembly module an async module
- `topLevelAwait`: Support the [Top Level Await Stage 3 proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-top-level-await), it makes the module an async module when `await` is used on the top-level
- `outputModule`: enables the use of [`output.module`](/configuration/output/#outputmodule) configuration option and sets it to `true`. Enables the use of `output.libraryTarget` as `'module'` and sets it to `'module'`.
- `layers`: Enable module and chunk layers.
- `lazyCompilation`: Compile entrypoints and dynamic `import`s only when they are in use.

**webpack.config.js**

```javascript
module.exports = {
  //...
  experiments: {
    outputModule: true,
    syncWebAssembly: true,
    topLevelAwait: true,
    asyncWebAssembly: true,
    layers: true,
    lazyCompilation: true,
  },
};
```

### experiments.lazyCompilation

Compile entrypoints and dynamic `import`s only when they are in use. It can be used for either Web or Node.js.

- Type
  - `boolean`
  - `object`
    ```ts
    {
      // define a custom backend
      backend?: ((
        compiler: webpack.Compiler,
        client: string,
        callback: (err?: Error, api?: any) => void
      ) => void)
      | ((
          compiler: webpack.Compiler,
          client: string
        ) => Promise<any>)
      client?: string,
      entries?: boolean,
      imports?: boolean,
      test?: RegExp | string | ((module: import("../lib/Module")) => boolean)
    }
    ```
    - `client`: Path to a custom client, defaults to `webpack/hot/lazy-compilation-{node|web}.js`.
    - `backend`: Customize the backend, defaults to `webpack/lib/hmr/lazyCompilationBackend`.
    - `entries`: Enable lazy compilation for entries.
    - `imports` <Badge text='5.20.0+' />: Enable lazy compilation for dynamic imports.
    - `test` <Badge text='5.20.0+' />: Specify which imported modules should be lazily compiled.
- Available: 5.17.0+
- Example 1:
  ```js
  module.exports = {
    // …
    experiments: {
      lazyCompilation: true,
    },
  };
  ```
- Example 2:

  ```js
  module.exports = {
    // …
    experiments: {
      lazyCompilation: {
        // disable lazy compilation for dynamic imports
        imports: false,

        // disable lazy compilation for entries
        entries: false,

        // do not lazily compile moduleB
        test: (module) => !/moduleB/.test(module.nameForCondition()),
      },
    },
  };
  ```

Commit message:

docs(configuration): document importModule (#4856)
* docs(configuration): document executeModule

* wip

* add example header to refer to

* wip

* more content

src/content/configuration/experiments.mdx, after:

---
title: Experiments
sort: 19
contributors:
  - EugeneHlushko
  - wizardofhogwarts
  - chenxsan
  - anshumanv
---

## `experiments`

`boolean: false`

`experiments` option was introduced in webpack 5 to empower users with the ability to activate and try out experimental features.

W> Because experimental features have relaxed semantic versioning and might contain breaking changes, make sure to fix webpack's version to minor e.g. `webpack: ~5.4.3` instead of `webpack: ^5.4.3` or use a lockfile when using `experiments`.

Available options:

- [`executeModule`](#experimentsexecutemodule): Enable execution of modules from the module graph for plugins and loaders at build time.
- `syncWebAssembly`: Support the old WebAssembly like in webpack 4
- `asyncWebAssembly`: Support the new WebAssembly according to the [updated specification](https://github.com/WebAssembly/esm-integration), it makes a WebAssembly module an async module
- `topLevelAwait`: Support the [Top Level Await Stage 3 proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-top-level-await), it makes the module an async module when `await` is used on the top-level
- `outputModule`: enables the use of [`output.module`](/configuration/output/#outputmodule) configuration option and sets it to `true`. Enables the use of `output.libraryTarget` as `'module'` and sets it to `'module'`.
- `layers`: Enable module and chunk layers.
- [`lazyCompilation`](#experimentslazycompilation): Compile entrypoints and dynamic `import`s only when they are in use.

**webpack.config.js**

```javascript
module.exports = {
  //...
  experiments: {
    executeModule: true,
    outputModule: true,
    syncWebAssembly: true,
    topLevelAwait: true,
    asyncWebAssembly: true,
    layers: true,
    lazyCompilation: true,
  },
};
```

### experiments.executeModule

Enable execution of modules from the module graph for plugins and loaders at build time to generate code or other assets.

- Type: `boolean`
- Available: 5.32.0+
- Example:

  ```js
  module.exports = {
    // …
    experiments: {
      executeModule: true,
    },
  };
  ```

### experiments.lazyCompilation

Compile entrypoints and dynamic `import`s only when they are in use. It can be used for either Web or Node.js.

- Type
  - `boolean`
  - `object`
    ```ts
    {
      // define a custom backend
      backend?: ((
        compiler: webpack.Compiler,
        client: string,
        callback: (err?: Error, api?: any) => void
      ) => void)
      | ((
          compiler: webpack.Compiler,
          client: string
        ) => Promise<any>)
      client?: string,
      entries?: boolean,
      imports?: boolean,
      test?: RegExp | string | ((module: import("../lib/Module")) => boolean)
    }
    ```
    - `client`: Path to a custom client, defaults to `webpack/hot/lazy-compilation-{node|web}.js`.
    - `backend`: Customize the backend, defaults to `webpack/lib/hmr/lazyCompilationBackend`.
    - `entries`: Enable lazy compilation for entries.
    - `imports` <Badge text='5.20.0+' />: Enable lazy compilation for dynamic imports.
    - `test` <Badge text='5.20.0+' />: Specify which imported modules should be lazily compiled.
- Available: 5.17.0+
- Example 1:
  ```js
  module.exports = {
    // …
    experiments: {
      lazyCompilation: true,
    },
  };
  ```
- Example 2:

  ```js
  module.exports = {
    // …
    experiments: {
      lazyCompilation: {
        // disable lazy compilation for dynamic imports
        imports: false,

        // disable lazy compilation for entries
        entries: false,

        // do not lazily compile moduleB
        test: (module) => !/moduleB/.test(module.nameForCondition()),
      },
    },
  };
  ```
