---
title: Other Options
sort: 16
contributors:
  - sokra
  - skipjack
  - terinjokes
  - byzyk
  - vansosnin
related:
  - title: Using Records
    url: https://survivejs.com/webpack/optimizing/separating-manifest/#using-records
---


These are the remaining configuration options supported by webpack.

W> Help Wanted: This page is still a work in progress. If you are familiar with any of the options for which the description or examples are incomplete, please create an issue and submit a PR at the [docs repo](https://github.com/webpack/webpack.js.org)!


## `amd`

`object`

Set the value of `require.amd` or `define.amd`:

__webpack.config.js__

```javascript
module.exports = {
  //...
  amd: {
    jQuery: true
  }
};
```

Certain popular modules written for AMD, most notably jQuery versions 1.7.0 to 1.9.1, will only register as an AMD module if the loader indicates it has taken [special allowances](https://github.com/amdjs/amdjs-api/wiki/jQuery-and-AMD) for multiple versions being included on a page.

The allowances were the ability to restrict registrations to a specific version or to support different sandboxes with different defined modules.

This option allows you to set the key your module looks for to a truthy value.
As it happens, the AMD support in webpack ignores the defined name anyways.


## `bail`

`boolean`

Fail out on the first error instead of tolerating it. By default webpack will log these errors in red in the terminal, as well as the browser console when using HMR, but continue bundling. To enable it:

__webpack.config.js__

```javascript
module.exports = {
  //...
  bail: true
};
```

This will force webpack to exit its bundling process.


## `cache`

`boolean` `object`

Cache the generated webpack modules and chunks to improve build speed. Caching is enabled by default while in watch mode. To disable caching simply pass:

__webpack.config.js__

```javascript
module.exports = {
  //...
  cache: false
};
```

If an object is passed, webpack will use this object for caching. Keeping a reference to this object will allow one to share the same cache between compiler calls:

__webpack.config.js__

```javascript
let SharedCache = {};

module.exports = {
  //...
  cache: SharedCache
};
```

W> Don't share the cache between calls with different options.

?> Elaborate on the warning and example - calls with different configuration options?


## `loader`

`object`

Expose custom values into the loader context.

?> Add an example...


## `parallelism`

`number`

Limit the number of parallel processed modules. Can be used to fine tune performance or to get more reliable profiling results.


## `profile`

`boolean`

Capture a "profile" of the application, including statistics and hints, which can then be dissected using the [Analyze](https://webpack.github.io/analyse/) tool.

T> Use the [StatsPlugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/stats-webpack-plugin) for more control over the generated profile.

T> Combine with `parallelism: 1` for better results.


## `recordsPath`

`string`

Use this option to generate a JSON file containing webpack "records" -- pieces of data used to store module identifiers across multiple builds. You can use this file to track how modules change between builds. To generate one, simply specify a location:

__webpack.config.js__

```javascript
module.exports = {
  //...
  recordsPath: path.join(__dirname, 'records.json')
};
```

Records are particularly useful if you have a complex setup that leverages [Code Splitting](/guides/code-splitting). The data can be used to ensure the split bundles are achieving the [caching](/guides/caching) behavior you need.

T> Note that although this file is generated by the compiler, you may still want to track it in source control to keep a history of how it has changed over time.

W> Setting `recordsPath` will essentially set `recordsInputPath` and `recordsOutputPath` to the same location. This is usually all that's necessary unless you decide to change the name of the file containing the records. See below for an example.


## `recordsInputPath`

`string`

Specify the file from which to read the last set of records. This can be used to rename a records file. See the example below.


## `recordsOutputPath`

`string`

Specify where the records should be written. The following example shows how you might use this option in combination with `recordsInputPath` to rename a records file:

__webpack.config.js__

```javascript
module.exports = {
  //...
  recordsInputPath: path.join(__dirname, 'records.json'),
  recordsOutputPath: path.join(__dirname, 'newRecords.json')
};
```


## `name`

`string`

Name of the configuration. Used when loading multiple configurations.

__webpack.config.js__

```javascript
module.exports = {
  //...
  name: 'admin-app'
};
```
