src/content/guides/asset-modules.md, before:

---
title: Asset Modules
sort: 25
contributors:
  - smelukov
  - EugeneHlushko
  - chenxsan
  - anshumanv
  - spence-s
related:
  - title: webpack 5 - Asset Modules
    url: https://dev.to/smelukov/webpack-5-asset-modules-2o3h
---

Asset Modules is a type of module that allows one to use asset files (fonts, icons, etc) without configuring additional loaders.

Prior to webpack 5 it was common to use:

- [`raw-loader`](/loaders/raw-loader/) to import a file as a string
- [`url-loader`](/loaders/url-loader/) to inline a file into the bundle as a data URI
- [`file-loader`](/loaders/file-loader/) to emit a file into the output directory

Asset Modules type replaces all of these loaders by adding 4 new module types:

- `asset/resource` emits a separate file and exports the URL. Previously achievable by using `file-loader`.
- `asset/inline` exports a data URI of the asset. Previously achievable by using `url-loader`.
- `asset/source` exports the source code of the asset. Previously achievable by using `raw-loader`.
- `asset` automatically chooses between exporting a data URI and emitting a separate file. Previously achievable by using `url-loader` with asset size limit.

When using the old assets loaders (i.e. `file-loader`/`url-loader`/`raw-loader`) along with Asset Module in webpack 5, you might want to stop Asset Module from processing your assets again as that would result in asset duplication. This can be done by setting asset's module type to `'javascript/auto'`.

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
module.exports = {
  module: {
   rules: [
      {
        test: /\.(png|jpg|gif)$/i,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'url-loader',
            options: {
              limit: 8192,
            }
          },
        ],
+       type: 'javascript/auto'
      },
   ]
  },
}
```

To exclude assets that came from new URL calls from the asset loaders add `dependency: { not: ['url'] }` to the loader configuration.

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.(png|jpg|gif)$/i,
+       dependency: { not: ['url'] },
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'url-loader',
            options: {
              limit: 8192,
            },
          },
        ],
      },
    ],
  }
}
```

## Resource assets

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')
  },
+ module: {
+   rules: [
+     {
+       test: /\.png/,
+       type: 'asset/resource'
+     }
+   ]
+ },
};
```

**src/index.js**

```js
import mainImage from './images/main.png';

img.src = mainImage; // '/dist/151cfcfa1bd74779aadb.png'
```

All `.png` files will be emitted to the output directory and their paths will be injected into the bundles.

### Custom output filename

By default, `asset/resource` modules are emitting with `[hash][ext][query]` filename into output directory.

You can modify this template by setting [`output.assetModuleFilename`](/configuration/output/#outputassetmodulefilename) in your webpack configuration:

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
+   assetModuleFilename: 'images/[hash][ext][query]'
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.png/,
        type: 'asset/resource'
      }
    ]
  },
};
```

Another case to customize output filename is to emit some kind of assets to a specified directory:

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
+   assetModuleFilename: 'images/[hash][ext][query]'
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.png/,
        type: 'asset/resource'
-     }
+     },
+     {
+       test: /\.html/,
+       type: 'asset/resource',
+       generator: {
+         filename: 'static/[hash][ext][query]'
+       }
+     }
    ]
  },
};
```

With this configuration all the `html` files will be emitted into a `static` directory within the output directory.

`Rule.generator.filename` is the same as [`output.assetModuleFilename`](/configuration/output/#outputassetmodulefilename) and works only with `asset` and `asset/resource` module types.

## Inlining assets

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
-   assetModuleFilename: 'images/[hash][ext][query]'
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
-       test: /\.png/,
-       type: 'asset/resource'
+       test: /\.svg/,
+       type: 'asset/inline'
-     },
+     }
-     {
-       test: /\.html/,
-       type: 'asset/resource',
-       generator: {
-         filename: 'static/[hash][ext][query]'
-       }
-     }
    ]
  }
};
```

**src/index.js**

```diff
- import mainImage from './images/main.png';
+ import metroMap from './images/metro.svg';

- img.src = mainImage; // '/dist/151cfcfa1bd74779aadb.png'
+ block.style.background = `url(${metroMap})`; // url(data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB4bWxucz0iaHR0cDo...vc3ZnPgo=)
```

All `.svg` files will be injected into the bundles as data URI.

### Custom data URI generator

By default, data URI emitted by webpack represents file contents encoded by using Base64 algorithm.

If you want to use a custom encoding algorithm, you may specify a custom function to encode a file content:

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');
+ const svgToMiniDataURI = require('mini-svg-data-uri');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.svg/,
        type: 'asset/inline',
+       generator: {
+         dataUrl: content => {
+           content = content.toString();
+           return svgToMiniDataURI(content);
+         }
+       }
      }
    ]
  },
};
```

Now all `.svg` files will be encoded by `mini-svg-data-uri` package.

## Source assets

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');
- const svgToMiniDataURI = require('mini-svg-data-uri');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
-       test: /\.svg/,
-       type: 'asset/inline',
-       generator: {
-         dataUrl: content => {
-           content = content.toString();
-           return svgToMiniDataURI(content);
-         }
-       }
+       test: /\.txt/,
+       type: 'asset/source',
      }
    ]
  },
};
```

**src/example.txt**

```text
Hello world
```

**src/index.js**

```diff
- import metroMap from './images/metro.svg';
+ import exampleText from './example.txt';

- block.style.background = `url(${metroMap}); // url(data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB4bWxucz0iaHR0cDo...vc3ZnPgo=)
+ block.textContent = exampleText; // 'Hello world'
```

All `.txt` files will be injected into the bundles as is.

## URL assets

When using `new URL('./path/to/asset', import.meta.url)`, webpack creates an asset module too.

**src/index.js**

```js
const logo = new URL('./logo.svg', import.meta.url);
```

Depending on the [`target`](/configuration/target/) in your configuration, webpack would compile the above code into a different result:

```js
// target: web
new URL(
  __webpack_public_path__ + 'logo.svg',
  document.baseURI || self.location.href
);

// target: webworker
new URL(__webpack_public_path__ + 'logo.svg', self.location);

// target: node, node-webkit, nwjs, electron-main, electron-renderer, electron-preload, async-node
new URL(
  __webpack_public_path__ + 'logo.svg',
  require('url').pathToFileUrl(__filename)
);
```

## General asset type

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
+       test: /\.txt/,
+       type: 'asset',
      }
    ]
  },
};
```

Now webpack will automatically choose between `resource` and `inline` by following a default condition: a file with size less than 8kb will be treated as a `inline` module type and `resource` module type otherwise.

You can change this condition by setting a [`Rule.parser.dataUrlCondition.maxSize`](/configuration/module/#ruleparserdataurlcondition) option on the module rule level of your webpack configuration:

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.txt/,
        type: 'asset',
+       parser: {
+         dataUrlCondition: {
+           maxSize: 4 * 1024 // 4kb
+         }
+       }
      }
    ]
  },
};
```

Also you can [specify a function](/configuration/module/#ruleparserdataurlcondition) to decide to inlining a module or not.

## Replacing Inline Loader Syntax

Before Asset Modules and Webpack 5, it was possible to use [inline syntax](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/loaders/#inline) with the legacy loaders mentioned above.

It is now recommended to remove all inline loader syntax and use a resourceQuery condition to mimic the functionality of the inline syntax.

For example, in the case of replacing `raw-loader` with `asset/source` type:

```diff
- import myModule from 'raw-loader!my-module';
+ import myModule from 'my-module?raw';
```

and in the webpack configuration:

```diff
module: {
    rules: [
    // ...
+     {
+       resourceQuery: /raw/,
+       type: 'asset/source',
+     }
    ]
  },
```

and if you'd like to exclude raw assets from being parsed by other loaders, use a negative lookahead:

```diff
module: {
    rules: [
    // ...
+     {
+       test: /\.m?js$/,
+       resourceQuery: /^(?!\?raw$).*/,
+     },
      {
        resourceQuery: /raw/,
        type: 'asset/source',
      }
    ]
  },
```

Commit message:

docs(guides): improve inline loader migration guideline (#4734)
* improve migration guideline

* Update src/content/guides/asset-modules.md

Co-authored-by: Sam Chen <chenxsan@gmail.com>

src/content/guides/asset-modules.md, after:

---
title: Asset Modules
sort: 25
contributors:
  - smelukov
  - EugeneHlushko
  - chenxsan
  - anshumanv
  - spence-s
related:
  - title: webpack 5 - Asset Modules
    url: https://dev.to/smelukov/webpack-5-asset-modules-2o3h
---

Asset Modules is a type of module that allows one to use asset files (fonts, icons, etc) without configuring additional loaders.

Prior to webpack 5 it was common to use:

- [`raw-loader`](/loaders/raw-loader/) to import a file as a string
- [`url-loader`](/loaders/url-loader/) to inline a file into the bundle as a data URI
- [`file-loader`](/loaders/file-loader/) to emit a file into the output directory

Asset Modules type replaces all of these loaders by adding 4 new module types:

- `asset/resource` emits a separate file and exports the URL. Previously achievable by using `file-loader`.
- `asset/inline` exports a data URI of the asset. Previously achievable by using `url-loader`.
- `asset/source` exports the source code of the asset. Previously achievable by using `raw-loader`.
- `asset` automatically chooses between exporting a data URI and emitting a separate file. Previously achievable by using `url-loader` with asset size limit.

When using the old assets loaders (i.e. `file-loader`/`url-loader`/`raw-loader`) along with Asset Module in webpack 5, you might want to stop Asset Module from processing your assets again as that would result in asset duplication. This can be done by setting asset's module type to `'javascript/auto'`.

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
module.exports = {
  module: {
   rules: [
      {
        test: /\.(png|jpg|gif)$/i,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'url-loader',
            options: {
              limit: 8192,
            }
          },
        ],
+       type: 'javascript/auto'
      },
   ]
  },
}
```

To exclude assets that came from new URL calls from the asset loaders add `dependency: { not: ['url'] }` to the loader configuration.

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.(png|jpg|gif)$/i,
+       dependency: { not: ['url'] },
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'url-loader',
            options: {
              limit: 8192,
            },
          },
        ],
      },
    ],
  }
}
```

## Resource assets

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')
  },
+ module: {
+   rules: [
+     {
+       test: /\.png/,
+       type: 'asset/resource'
+     }
+   ]
+ },
};
```

**src/index.js**

```js
import mainImage from './images/main.png';

img.src = mainImage; // '/dist/151cfcfa1bd74779aadb.png'
```

All `.png` files will be emitted to the output directory and their paths will be injected into the bundles.

### Custom output filename

By default, `asset/resource` modules are emitting with `[hash][ext][query]` filename into output directory.

You can modify this template by setting [`output.assetModuleFilename`](/configuration/output/#outputassetmodulefilename) in your webpack configuration:

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
+   assetModuleFilename: 'images/[hash][ext][query]'
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.png/,
        type: 'asset/resource'
      }
    ]
  },
};
```

Another case to customize output filename is to emit some kind of assets to a specified directory:

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
+   assetModuleFilename: 'images/[hash][ext][query]'
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.png/,
        type: 'asset/resource'
-     }
+     },
+     {
+       test: /\.html/,
+       type: 'asset/resource',
+       generator: {
+         filename: 'static/[hash][ext][query]'
+       }
+     }
    ]
  },
};
```

With this configuration all the `html` files will be emitted into a `static` directory within the output directory.

`Rule.generator.filename` is the same as [`output.assetModuleFilename`](/configuration/output/#outputassetmodulefilename) and works only with `asset` and `asset/resource` module types.

## Inlining assets

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
-   assetModuleFilename: 'images/[hash][ext][query]'
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
-       test: /\.png/,
-       type: 'asset/resource'
+       test: /\.svg/,
+       type: 'asset/inline'
-     },
+     }
-     {
-       test: /\.html/,
-       type: 'asset/resource',
-       generator: {
-         filename: 'static/[hash][ext][query]'
-       }
-     }
    ]
  }
};
```

**src/index.js**

```diff
- import mainImage from './images/main.png';
+ import metroMap from './images/metro.svg';

- img.src = mainImage; // '/dist/151cfcfa1bd74779aadb.png'
+ block.style.background = `url(${metroMap})`; // url(data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB4bWxucz0iaHR0cDo...vc3ZnPgo=)
```

All `.svg` files will be injected into the bundles as data URI.

### Custom data URI generator

By default, data URI emitted by webpack represents file contents encoded by using Base64 algorithm.

If you want to use a custom encoding algorithm, you may specify a custom function to encode a file content:

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');
+ const svgToMiniDataURI = require('mini-svg-data-uri');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.svg/,
        type: 'asset/inline',
+       generator: {
+         dataUrl: content => {
+           content = content.toString();
+           return svgToMiniDataURI(content);
+         }
+       }
      }
    ]
  },
};
```

Now all `.svg` files will be encoded by `mini-svg-data-uri` package.

## Source assets

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');
- const svgToMiniDataURI = require('mini-svg-data-uri');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
-       test: /\.svg/,
-       type: 'asset/inline',
-       generator: {
-         dataUrl: content => {
-           content = content.toString();
-           return svgToMiniDataURI(content);
-         }
-       }
+       test: /\.txt/,
+       type: 'asset/source',
      }
    ]
  },
};
```

**src/example.txt**

```text
Hello world
```

**src/index.js**

```diff
- import metroMap from './images/metro.svg';
+ import exampleText from './example.txt';

- block.style.background = `url(${metroMap}); // url(data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB4bWxucz0iaHR0cDo...vc3ZnPgo=)
+ block.textContent = exampleText; // 'Hello world'
```

All `.txt` files will be injected into the bundles as is.

## URL assets

When using `new URL('./path/to/asset', import.meta.url)`, webpack creates an asset module too.

**src/index.js**

```js
const logo = new URL('./logo.svg', import.meta.url);
```

Depending on the [`target`](/configuration/target/) in your configuration, webpack would compile the above code into a different result:

```js
// target: web
new URL(
  __webpack_public_path__ + 'logo.svg',
  document.baseURI || self.location.href
);

// target: webworker
new URL(__webpack_public_path__ + 'logo.svg', self.location);

// target: node, node-webkit, nwjs, electron-main, electron-renderer, electron-preload, async-node
new URL(
  __webpack_public_path__ + 'logo.svg',
  require('url').pathToFileUrl(__filename)
);
```

## General asset type

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
+       test: /\.txt/,
+       type: 'asset',
      }
    ]
  },
};
```

Now webpack will automatically choose between `resource` and `inline` by following a default condition: a file with size less than 8kb will be treated as a `inline` module type and `resource` module type otherwise.

You can change this condition by setting a [`Rule.parser.dataUrlCondition.maxSize`](/configuration/module/#ruleparserdataurlcondition) option on the module rule level of your webpack configuration:

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'main.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist')
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.txt/,
        type: 'asset',
+       parser: {
+         dataUrlCondition: {
+           maxSize: 4 * 1024 // 4kb
+         }
+       }
      }
    ]
  },
};
```

Also you can [specify a function](/configuration/module/#ruleparserdataurlcondition) to decide to inlining a module or not.

## Replacing Inline Loader Syntax

Before Asset Modules and Webpack 5, it was possible to use [inline syntax](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/loaders/#inline) with the legacy loaders mentioned above.

It is now recommended to remove all inline loader syntax and use a resourceQuery condition to mimic the functionality of the inline syntax.

For example, in the case of replacing `raw-loader` with `asset/source` type:

```diff
- import myModule from 'raw-loader!my-module';
+ import myModule from 'my-module?raw';
```

and in the webpack configuration:

```diff
module: {
    rules: [
    // ...
+     {
+       resourceQuery: /raw/,
+       type: 'asset/source',
+     }
    ]
  },
```

and if you'd like to exclude raw assets from being processed by other loaders, use a negative condition:

```diff
module: {
    rules: [
    // ...
+     {
+       test: /\.m?js$/,
+       resourceQuery: { not: /raw/ },
+       use: [ ... ]
+     },
      {
        resourceQuery: /raw/,
        type: 'asset/source',
      }
    ]
  },
```

or a `oneOf` list of rules. Here only the first matching rule will be applied:

```diff
module: {
    rules: [
    // ...
+     { oneOf: [
        {
          resourceQuery: /raw/,
          type: 'asset/source',
        },
+       {
+         test: /\.m?js$/,
+         use: [ ... ]
+       },
+     ] }
    ]
  },
```
