src/content/guides/typescript.mdx, before:

---
title: TypeScript
sort: 21
contributors:
  - morsdyce
  - kkamali
  - mtrivera
  - byzyk
  - EugeneHlushko
---

T> This guide stems from the [_Getting Started_](/guides/getting-started/) guide.

[TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org) is a typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript. In this guide we will learn how to integrate TypeScript with webpack.

## Basic Setup

First install the TypeScript compiler and loader by running:

```bash
npm install --save-dev typescript ts-loader
```

Now we'll modify the directory structure & the configuration files:

**project**

```diff
  webpack-demo
  |- package.json
+ |- tsconfig.json
  |- webpack.config.js
  |- /dist
    |- bundle.js
    |- index.html
  |- /src
    |- index.js
+   |- index.ts
  |- /node_modules
```

**tsconfig.json**

Let's set up a configuration to support JSX and compile TypeScript down to ES5...

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "outDir": "./dist/",
    "noImplicitAny": true,
    "module": "es6",
    "target": "es5",
    "jsx": "react",
    "allowJs": true,
    "moduleResolution": "node"
  }
}
```

See [TypeScript's documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/tsconfig-json.html) to learn more about `tsconfig.json` configuration options.

To learn more about webpack configuration, see the [configuration concepts](/concepts/configuration/).

Now let's configure webpack to handle TypeScript:

**webpack.config.js**

```js
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.ts',
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.tsx?$/,
        use: 'ts-loader',
        exclude: /node_modules/,
      },
    ],
  },
  resolve: {
    extensions: ['.tsx', '.ts', '.js'],
  },
  output: {
    filename: 'bundle.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
  },
};
```

This will direct webpack to _enter_ through `./index.ts`, _load_ all `.ts` and `.tsx` files through the `ts-loader`, and _output_ a `bundle.js` file in our current directory.

Now lets change the import of `lodash` in our `./index.ts` due to the fact that there is no default export present in `lodash` definitions.

**./index.ts**

```diff
- import _ from 'lodash';
+ import * as _ from 'lodash';

  function component() {
    const element = document.createElement('div');

    element.innerHTML = _.join(['Hello', 'webpack'], ' ');

    return element;
  }

  document.body.appendChild(component());
```

T> To make imports do this by default and keep `import _ from 'lodash';` syntax in TypeScript, set `"allowSyntheticDefaultImports" : true` and `"esModuleInterop" : true` in your **tsconfig.json** file. This is related to TypeScript configuration and mentioned in our guide only for your information.

## Loader

[`ts-loader`](https://github.com/TypeStrong/ts-loader)

We use `ts-loader` in this guide as it makes enabling additional webpack features, such as importing other web assets, a bit easier.

W> `ts-loader` uses `tsc`, the TypeScript compiler, and relies on your `tsconfig.json` configuration. Make sure to avoid setting [`module`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#module) to "CommonJS", or webpack won't be able to [tree-shake your code](/guides/tree-shaking).

Note that if you're already using [`babel-loader`](https://github.com/babel/babel-loader) to transpile your code, you can use [`@babel/preset-typescript`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-typescript) and let Babel handle both your JavaScript and TypeScript files instead of using an additional loader. Keep in mind that, contrary to `ts-loader`, the underlying [`@babel/plugin-transform-typescript`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-typescript) plugin does not perform any type checking.

## Source Maps

To learn more about source maps, see the [development guide](/guides/development).

To enable source maps, we must configure TypeScript to output inline source maps to our compiled JavaScript files. The following line must be added to our TypeScript configuration:

**tsconfig.json**

```diff
  {
    "compilerOptions": {
      "outDir": "./dist/",
+     "sourceMap": true,
      "noImplicitAny": true,
      "module": "commonjs",
      "target": "es5",
      "jsx": "react",
      "allowJs": true,
      "moduleResolution": "node",
    }
  }
```

Now we need to tell webpack to extract these source maps and include in our final bundle:

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
  const path = require('path');

  module.exports = {
    entry: './src/index.ts',
+   devtool: 'inline-source-map',
    module: {
      rules: [
        {
          test: /\.tsx?$/,
          use: 'ts-loader',
          exclude: /node_modules/,
        },
      ],
    },
    resolve: {
      extensions: [ '.tsx', '.ts', '.js' ],
    },
    output: {
      filename: 'bundle.js',
      path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
    },
  };
```

See the [devtool documentation](/configuration/devtool/) for more information.

## Using Third Party Libraries

When installing third party libraries from npm, it is important to remember to install the typing definition for that library. These definitions can be found at [TypeSearch](https://microsoft.github.io/TypeSearch/).

For example if we want to install lodash we can run the following command to get the typings for it:

```bash
npm install --save-dev @types/lodash
```

For more information see [this blog post](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/typescript/2016/06/15/the-future-of-declaration-files/).

## Importing Other Assets

To use non-code assets with TypeScript, we need to defer the type for these imports. This requires a `custom.d.ts` file which signifies custom definitions for TypeScript in our project. Let's set up a declaration for `.svg` files:

**custom.d.ts**

```typescript
declare module '*.svg' {
  const content: any;
  export default content;
}
```

Here we declare a new module for SVGs by specifying any import that ends in `.svg` and defining the module's `content` as `any`. We could be more explicit about it being a url by defining the type as string. The same concept applies to other assets including CSS, SCSS, JSON and more.

## Build Performance

W> This may degrade build performance.

See the [Build Performance](/guides/build-performance/) guide on build tooling.

Commit message:

docs(guides): document client types for typescript (#5667)

src/content/guides/typescript.mdx, after:

---
title: TypeScript
sort: 21
contributors:
  - morsdyce
  - kkamali
  - mtrivera
  - byzyk
  - EugeneHlushko
  - chenxsan
---

T> This guide stems from the [_Getting Started_](/guides/getting-started/) guide.

[TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org) is a typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript. In this guide we will learn how to integrate TypeScript with webpack.

## Basic Setup

First install the TypeScript compiler and loader by running:

```bash
npm install --save-dev typescript ts-loader
```

Now we'll modify the directory structure & the configuration files:

**project**

```diff
  webpack-demo
  |- package.json
+ |- tsconfig.json
  |- webpack.config.js
  |- /dist
    |- bundle.js
    |- index.html
  |- /src
    |- index.js
+   |- index.ts
  |- /node_modules
```

**tsconfig.json**

Let's set up a configuration to support JSX and compile TypeScript down to ES5...

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "outDir": "./dist/",
    "noImplicitAny": true,
    "module": "es6",
    "target": "es5",
    "jsx": "react",
    "allowJs": true,
    "moduleResolution": "node"
  }
}
```

See [TypeScript's documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/tsconfig-json.html) to learn more about `tsconfig.json` configuration options.

To learn more about webpack configuration, see the [configuration concepts](/concepts/configuration/).

Now let's configure webpack to handle TypeScript:

**webpack.config.js**

```js
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.ts',
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.tsx?$/,
        use: 'ts-loader',
        exclude: /node_modules/,
      },
    ],
  },
  resolve: {
    extensions: ['.tsx', '.ts', '.js'],
  },
  output: {
    filename: 'bundle.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
  },
};
```

This will direct webpack to _enter_ through `./index.ts`, _load_ all `.ts` and `.tsx` files through the `ts-loader`, and _output_ a `bundle.js` file in our current directory.

Now lets change the import of `lodash` in our `./index.ts` due to the fact that there is no default export present in `lodash` definitions.

**./index.ts**

```diff
- import _ from 'lodash';
+ import * as _ from 'lodash';

  function component() {
    const element = document.createElement('div');

    element.innerHTML = _.join(['Hello', 'webpack'], ' ');

    return element;
  }

  document.body.appendChild(component());
```

T> To make imports do this by default and keep `import _ from 'lodash';` syntax in TypeScript, set `"allowSyntheticDefaultImports" : true` and `"esModuleInterop" : true` in your **tsconfig.json** file. This is related to TypeScript configuration and mentioned in our guide only for your information.

## Loader

[`ts-loader`](https://github.com/TypeStrong/ts-loader)

We use `ts-loader` in this guide as it makes enabling additional webpack features, such as importing other web assets, a bit easier.

W> `ts-loader` uses `tsc`, the TypeScript compiler, and relies on your `tsconfig.json` configuration. Make sure to avoid setting [`module`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#module) to "CommonJS", or webpack won't be able to [tree-shake your code](/guides/tree-shaking).

Note that if you're already using [`babel-loader`](https://github.com/babel/babel-loader) to transpile your code, you can use [`@babel/preset-typescript`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-typescript) and let Babel handle both your JavaScript and TypeScript files instead of using an additional loader. Keep in mind that, contrary to `ts-loader`, the underlying [`@babel/plugin-transform-typescript`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-typescript) plugin does not perform any type checking.

## Source Maps

To learn more about source maps, see the [development guide](/guides/development).

To enable source maps, we must configure TypeScript to output inline source maps to our compiled JavaScript files. The following line must be added to our TypeScript configuration:

**tsconfig.json**

```diff
  {
    "compilerOptions": {
      "outDir": "./dist/",
+     "sourceMap": true,
      "noImplicitAny": true,
      "module": "commonjs",
      "target": "es5",
      "jsx": "react",
      "allowJs": true,
      "moduleResolution": "node",
    }
  }
```

Now we need to tell webpack to extract these source maps and include in our final bundle:

**webpack.config.js**

```diff
  const path = require('path');

  module.exports = {
    entry: './src/index.ts',
+   devtool: 'inline-source-map',
    module: {
      rules: [
        {
          test: /\.tsx?$/,
          use: 'ts-loader',
          exclude: /node_modules/,
        },
      ],
    },
    resolve: {
      extensions: [ '.tsx', '.ts', '.js' ],
    },
    output: {
      filename: 'bundle.js',
      path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
    },
  };
```

See the [devtool documentation](/configuration/devtool/) for more information.

## Client types

It's possible to use webpack specific features in your TypeScript code, such as [`import.meta.webpack`](/api/module-variables/#importmetawebpack). And webpack provides types for them as well, just add a TypeScript [`reference`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/triple-slash-directives.html#-reference-types-) directive to declare it:

```ts
/// <reference types="webpack/module" />
console.log(import.meta.webpack); // without reference declared above, TypeScript will throw an error
```

## Using Third Party Libraries

When installing third party libraries from npm, it is important to remember to install the typing definition for that library. These definitions can be found at [TypeSearch](https://microsoft.github.io/TypeSearch/).

For example if we want to install lodash we can run the following command to get the typings for it:

```bash
npm install --save-dev @types/lodash
```

For more information see [this blog post](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/typescript/2016/06/15/the-future-of-declaration-files/).

## Importing Other Assets

To use non-code assets with TypeScript, we need to defer the type for these imports. This requires a `custom.d.ts` file which signifies custom definitions for TypeScript in our project. Let's set up a declaration for `.svg` files:

**custom.d.ts**

```typescript
declare module '*.svg' {
  const content: any;
  export default content;
}
```

Here we declare a new module for SVGs by specifying any import that ends in `.svg` and defining the module's `content` as `any`. We could be more explicit about it being a url by defining the type as string. The same concept applies to other assets including CSS, SCSS, JSON and more.

## Build Performance

W> This may degrade build performance.

See the [Build Performance](/guides/build-performance/) guide on build tooling.
